We went through this page nine, basically page nine. Nine of these, and now what we will discuss.
Until now, and yesterday, we discussed among the two groups of the practice of meditation.
The first one is the Shammata meditation, and the second is the Vajrayana meditation.
Shammata meditation is coming down the mind,
and coming down the mind of all the busyness, consumption, and emotions, and thought.
Mind is always busy, wonder if the mind is running, and where is it running?
On the third of the five senses, the object is all five, six senses.
Those are eye senses, object-to-eye senses, object-of-the-air senses, object-of-a-nose,
object-room, tone, and the body, and the mind. It's running all the time.
Where is it running? It's also running all the time outside.
Exhaling, wondering every direction, all that, and looking, and searching, and craving.
Treving, and with the kind of hope, and the fears.
That's what the mind has been doing all the time.
Where there is a big, gross level, big level, small level, that's what.
Mind becomes very restless status, always.
And so now, what Shammata means, bring mind back.
Settle into yourself, looking inwardly, not just in caring all the time outside.
Bring inwardly.
And that is when we went through the gracious teacher,
Buddha Sakyama, and his varieties of those mindful practices, Shama, the meditations.
We went through with it, whole, renal cycle thought.
And also, we went really, the whole mindfulness practices.
Whole, renal cycle thought, this is the name of the whole, renal cycle thought,
but it is mindfulness practices.
We are collecting those, each point, with mind, it's already going there.
It was coming down our mind, and secondly, our mind.
It is part of mindfulness practices.
Same time, it was entering down ourselves on the ground of the nature where it belongs.
Otherwise, we're carried the post by all those distractions of mainly six senses, objects.
All coming carried by that post, out all the time.
And that is then carried with mingali, joined with hope and faith, all the time.
So now, we're kind of brain coming back, suddenly gone, looking thoroughly of these systems.
This whole renal cycle or whole point of change,
point that will change the attitude of the grasping, cling of samsara,
it's not just a kind of Buddhist toma or Buddhist way, only Buddhist thing.
This is the way the nature is.
That's the way that the samsara or the situation in our, we are.
British life, we discuss them. That's not just Buddhism.
Whether you're a Buddhist or a non-Buddhist or a believer or a non-believer,
everyone's life is precious. Everyone has a life.
Life is precious to everyone.
Not just only the human beings, animals.
All the beings, what does the gracious teacher Buddha both broad understand,
not partiality, only the human beings, only this group.
The whole base has same.
Life is precious to everyone.
Then we discuss it with our second mindfulness practice.
We discuss it about the impermanent.
A impermanent is not just a Buddhist, followers. Everyone is best on that.
Whether you're believer, non-believer, Buddhist, non-Buddhist.
But Buddhist, what Buddhism is doing here is looking through the nature,
not just ignoring, not looking in the other directions,
looking to where we belong, where we stand, what we are.
Totally examine, get meaningful from that situation.
Not just security the pulse of the naive and kind of like distracted
and then ignore.
So the second is impermanent. Third is cause and effect systems.
That again is not just Buddhism.
Everyone, whether you are believer or non-believer,
everyone has same things. Everyone goes through.
Cause and effect are so important and that's what we all best.
Everything is best on that cause and effect,
which is sometimes, with the Buddha teaching, name the karma.
Karma is more connected with mentally that.
Mentally connected and it is action.
Action of the mind, what produced and carried that.
That's what's called karma. But externally everything is also that karma too.
All the growth of breath plants, seed, when you plant the seed,
if you put nice conditions in the soil, your brain grows.
If you didn't plant that seed, you will see it.
If you didn't plant that seed correctly or you didn't take care of that plant
by the conditions and fertilizers, it won't bring the result.
That's the karma of the outside. It's done. Same thing.
So that is what we are left with.
Exactly to the cause and conditions and the result.
Everyone likes to have happy and joy and peaceful.
Jews are communicating, gathering the cause that will bring more happy,
more peace, more joy to our son, to the others.
And if we don't care if we have the happiness and peaceful,
then do the action, what will be counteractive with emotions.
Anger, ghettos, hatred, hopes.
Then we embrace and release head and sufferings to our son, to the others.
Ask our son if it's true or not.
This is not just the buddhist and the domo.
Always reflecting that truth, be productive.
Be a common sense, sensible.
Make more meaningful.
And more for more, well, we have this beautiful time.
Well, we say this beautiful time, we're not threatening.
Our buddhist is not threatening.
It's whether we see that by word or not.
Time is limited.
Time is not just going to wait us.
Waiting us is true.
And so be smart to take the opportunity.
Be smart to take the opportunity.
For example, spring is not going to wait for us.
Whatever we have to do in the springtime, have to do.
If you like to get the result that did something in springtime,
you do progress in the summer, in the autumn.
You have to do.
Spring will not wait us.
No summer will not wait us.
Time is going to be smart and use.
Follow the example of the farmers.
I mean, farmers are not going to wait to plant the seeds and all that.
Do the right time.
Similarly, use the time, be smart.
Cause an effort.
And then the samsara has a lot of receptive factors.
The world has so many receptive factors.
No matter what your is, even you're the weakest person,
still not comfortable, still not happy.
And the poor is a person, also not happy.
And average people, also not satisfactory.
Always goes ups and downs.
And we rely externally, every day.
There's no permanent happiness solutions.
Peaceful solutions outside.
For that reason, gracious teacher, brother Chakramani,
and all those great masters who follow that path,
said, change your mind.
If you like to get happiness, change your mind.
If you don't like suffering, change your mind.
Make the change from our mind, not mind of the others.
Others.
And the samsara, they samsara what?
When you do that, are we able to do that?
What is the teaching said?
Samsara is nirvana.
Samsara is a pure land.
Samsara is heaven.
Heaven is not ours, so we have to go.
Yeah.
Samsara, heaven is right here.
Right here.
How why?
Because it's discovered from the mind.
It's that.
That's what we really went to.
All practices are mindfulness practices.
Many changes.
When you practice this, that's what all the practice,
lineage masters, all the human masters,
all the kajim masters, as well as all the Buddhist masters,
really mention this four point change is the anchor.
Anchor of the practices.
Anchor is a dome.
What that means is the anchor.
We are plotting by the destruction of the samsara.
Deceiving.
This mind is so unstable.
And obviously the five senses or six senses are so deceiving.
It's carried.
We're plotting.
We're unstable, restless.
But when we have this four point, what is thought?
It was anchor dome.
More subtle, more stable, more sensible, more common sense,
more smart, more really practical.
Practical.
Even in the great masters, in the teaching that we make of it,
this is not just a once in a while thing,
this four thoughts, not just once in a while,
but every thing that every beginner practices,
that practice will come so beautifully.
Beautiful.
We make more anchor, more sensible practices.
So those that it isn't here, great master.
[INAUDIBLE]
And then along with that, we went through the four minds
from his practice.
Those yester, those all [INAUDIBLE] meditation.
Really focused in coming dome.
And talking with the [INAUDIBLE] meditation,
many of you, you or we know, we heard that many times.
many times.